>> Evan You: So
we're done with the reactivity system.
We got something very basic working.
And if inside the functions,
you're doing some manipulations,
you've essentially built a tiny
reactivity engine that can automatically
keep your state and in sync, right?
So that's the very simple version of
how vue's update system actually works.
And next we are going to take
little detour into another topic.
Let's talk about writing plugins.
So, you probably used
a plugin before with vue.use.
And how many of you have read the page
about writing plugins in the docs?
No one?
>> Speaker 2: Glanced?
>> Evan You: Glanced, okay.
All right, so
essentially a plugin is just a function
that receives Vue as
the first argument and
optionally second argument options.
And then you do something
with Vue inside your plugin.
That's the higher level Vue of it, but
some of the commonly used
techniques when you're
writing plugins involves
this Vue.mixin API.
How many of you have used mixins?
>> Evan You: Okay.
So mixins are essentially parts
reusable snippets or parts of
Vue component options that can be mixed
into an existing component, all right?
So you can use them on
a per component basis but
Vue.mixin is a global API
that will apply a mixin
to every instance created from then on,
right?
So it's very powerful, but the greater
the power the greater the responsibility.
So you don't do crazy things
inside the global mixins,
all right,
because it affects every instance.
But it's very commonly,
if you want to apply some
global functionality to your Vue app,
you will be using global mixins.
And usually it's a better idea to
wrap this with a plugin interface because
plugins are automatically deduped.
If you have multiple vue.use
calls to the same plugin it will
prevent it from being applied over and
over again.
The vue.mixin doesn't do that.
So it's best practice to always wrap
global mixins in a plugin interface.
And it's also more consistent
when you see your entry script.
You always see vue.use,
this plugin, that plugin.
It's more consistent that way.
And the other commonly used thing
is this dollar options property,
instance property.
So probably not many of you
know this thing exists, but
this dot dollar options exist on every
component and this contains the merged,
normalized options object
of that specific instance,
because we know Vue component options
can come from a lot of places.
It can come from global mixins.
It can come from
the component's own definition.
the options you pass to it
when you're creating the instance,
all right.
And it can be also from
an answers component if you have
further chains of
view.extend along the way.
So all of these options need to be merged
and normalized into this final options
object for that instance, and
that is $options for each instance.
And interestingly,
this also contains any custom options
that you added to that component.
So it doesn't have to
be a built-in option.
So we will just merge everything in here.